USER GUIDE

1. Adding a new book:
The librarian can add a new book by clicking
Books > Add Books
A new window would appear.
Now fill in all the details about the book and click on “Insert the Information” botton.

2. Listing all books in the library:
The librarian can make a list of all books in the library by clicking
Books > List All Books
A new window would appear which contains details of all the books in the library and he can also take a printout of the generated list by clicking on the “print the books” botton.

3. Listing all available books in the library:
The librarian can make a list of all available books in the library by clicking
Books > List Available Books
A new window would appear which contains details of all the available books in the library and he can also take a printout of the generated list by clicking on the “print the books” botton.

4. Listing all borrowed books from the library:
The librarian can make a list of all borrowed books from the library by clicking
Books > List Borrowed Books
A new window would appear which contain details of all the borrowed books from the library and he can also take a printout of the generated list by clicking on the “print the books” botton.

5. Editting book details:
The librarian can update the details of books by clicking
Books > Edit Books
A new window would appear which ask for “BookID” and after entering the BookID click on the “Edit” button.It will display all the details in the respective fields and now the librarian can make any changes to the details and then update the details by clicking on ”Update the Information” button.

6. Removing book:
For deleting a book the librarian have to click on
Books > Remove Books
A new window would appear where he has to enter the BookID and then click on the Remove button.

7. Adding a new member:
The librarian can add a new book by clicking
Members > Add Members
A new window would appear.
Now fill in all the details about the Member and click on “Insert the Information” botton.

8. Listing all members:
The librarian can make a list of all books in the library by clicking
Members > List All Members
A new window would appear which contain details of all the books in the library and he can also take a printout of the generated list by clicking on the “print the members” botton.

9. Editting member details:
The librarian can update the details of books by clicking
Members > Edit Members
A new window would appear which ask for “MemberID” and then click on the “Edit” button.It will display all the details of the member in the respective fields and now the librarian can make any changes to the details and then update the details by clicking on ”Update the Information” button.

10. Removing members:
For removing a member from the library, the librarian have to click on
Members > Remove Member
A new window would appear where he has to enter the MemberID and then click on the Remove button.

11. Searching for books and members
The librarian can search for any books or members by clicking on
Search > Search
A new window would appear.
Now he can make a search for a book by their subject,title,bookid,author,publisher,ISBN or he can make a serach for a member by their membered,name,email,major.
Now click on the search button. A list would appear containing all the details regarding the books or members, what ever he search for. Now he can also take a printout of that list by clicking on print button.

12. Borrowing a book:
For borrowing a book click on Loan > Borrow a Book.
Now enter the bookid of the book that is to be borrowed, memberid of the borrowing member and the date of return into their respective fields.
Now click on borrow button.

13. Returning a book:
For returning a book click on Loan > Return a Book.
Now enter the bookid of the book that is to be borrowed, memberid of the borrowing member and the fine per day amount into their respective fields.
Press enter after entering the fine per day amount, it will make a calculation for the fine and then display the total fine amount automatically.
Now click on Return button.

14. Issued book details:
For listing the details of issued books click on Loan > Issued book details.
A new window would appear containing details of the issued books.
A printout of the generated list can be taken by clicking on the “print the books” botton.

15. Tools :
Tools like calculator and notepad can be use by clicking on Tools > Calculator for calculator and Tools > Notepad for notepad respectively.

16. About the Library Management System:
To know about the Library Management System click on Help > About.
A new popup window would appear containing the information about the Library Management System.

17. Change Password :
To change the password of the Librarian, click on File>Change Password.

18. Delete Librarian :
To delete the user account from the Library Management System, click on File>Delete Librarian.

19. Exiting from system:
For exiting from the system click on File > Exit.